Blog post for Bazel 0.19.0. (#131)
bazelbuild/bazel-blog: _posts/2018-10-29-bazel-0.19.0.md

---
layout: posts
title: "Bazel 0.19"
authors:
  - katre
---

The Bazel team is happy to announce a new version of Bazel, [Bazel 0.19](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases/tag/0.19.0).

This document lists the major changes since Bazel 0.18.

## General changes

> * The [`--incompatible_expand_directories`](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/skylark/backward-compatibility.html#expand-directories-in-args) flag automatically expands directories in command lines. See the design document.

Reviewer: where is the link to the design document?

Author: Does this need to be fixed before we can announce the release?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, links from the original document are lost (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wDvulLlj4NAlPZamdlEVFORks3YXJonCjyuQMUQEmB0/edit)

Author: Fixed.

* The `--loading_phase_threads` flag now defaults to `auto` instead of 200, which at the moment corresponds to the number of CPUs. This is appropriate for most users. However, if your sources reside on a network file system, increasing this value may yield better analysis-time performance when disk caches are cold.

## Android

* Fixed missing debug symbols when building native code with `--compilation_mode=dbg` that target Android ARM architectures by adding the `-g` flag.

## C++

> * Added `--incompatible_disable_legacy_flags_cc_toolchain_api` to deprecate legacy `cc_toolchain` Starlark API for legacy `CROSSTOOL` fields. Tracking issue is #6434. See the instructions for migration.

Reviewer: link to #6434?

Author: Fixed.

* Runfiles in `cc_test`: the C++ runfiles library (`@bazel_tools//tools/cpp/runfiles`) can now create Runfiles objects for tests. See `//tools/cpp/runfiles/runfiles_src.h` in the Bazel source tree for documentation.

> * :cc_binary link action no longer hardcodes `-static-libgcc` for toolchains that support embedded runtimes (guarded by `--experimental_dont_emit_static_libgcc` temporarily).

Reviewer 2: backquotes around cc_binary

Author: Fixed.

* The flag `--experimental_enable_cc_configuration_make_variables` is removed, use `--incompatible_disable_cc_configuration_make_variables` instead.

## Java

* Bazel now requires a JDK to be installed as it no longer falls back to the internal JDK if the `--javabase` flag is not set. Instead, Bazel now searches for a JDK within the `JAVA_HOME` and `PATH` environment variables. If Bazel cannot find a JDK, it will not be able to run Java builds. 

## Code Coverage

* LcovMerger was renamed to [CoverageOutputGenerator](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/pull/6137). Please use 
```
--coverage_report_generator=@bazel_tools//tools/test/CoverageOutputGenerator/java/com/google/devtools/coverageoutputgenerator:Main
```

instead of the previous 

```
--coverage_report_generator=@bazel_tools//tools/test/LcovMerger/java/com/google/devtools/lcovmerger:Main
```

> * You can now enable a new coverage method for C++ rules that use gcc with the --experimental_cc_coverage flag. The flag will use gcov instead of lcov to collect coverage information. This new implementation fixes

Reviewer 2: backquotes around the flag name

Author: Fixed.

some of the C++ coverage correctness issues ( [respecting `--instrumentation_filter` and `--instrument_test_targets` flags](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/issues/6129) ). 

> There have been observed faster clean and incremental times when invoking bazel coverage ( [small overhead compared to test runtimes instead of 2x test runtime](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/issues/5882) ),  but more measurements need to be done.

Reviewer: double spacing between , and "but"

Author: Fixed.

## Other Changes

* Add `--apple_compiler` and `--apple_grte_top options`. These provide the equivalent of `--compiler` / `--grte_top` for the toolchain configured in `--apple_crosstool_top`.

> * There is now a `same_pkg_direct_rdeps` query function. See the query documentation for more details.

Reviewer: link to query documentation?

Author: Does this need to be fixed before we can announce the release?

Reviewer: No, I don't think so.

> * Propagating remote errors to the user even if `--verbose_failures=false` is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Propagating remote errors to the user even if `--verbose_failures=false` is set.
```

Bazel now propagates remote errors to the user even if `--verbose_failures=false` is set.

Author: Fixed.

> * Add number of configured targets to analysis phase status output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The number of configured targets is now shown in the analysis phase status output.
```

Author: Fixed.

* Bazel will now check stderr instead of stdout to decide if it is outputting to a terminal.  `--isatty` is deprecated, use `--is_stderr_atty` instead.

## Future Changes

> We will do incompatible changes in Bazel 0.20. We encourage you to migrate in advance (or report any migration difficulty) with the following flags:

Reviewer: could we link to any documentation the plans on incompatible changes here? @dslomov

Author: Does this need to be fixed before we can announce the release?

Reviewer: IMO anything with "We will do ... in Bazel <version>" in the relnotes should be accompanied with its design/justification.

Reviewer 2: Each of the changes has a link to documentation. Isn't it enough?

Reviewer: I was thinking of linking to [this document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dj5PBLmPVg9ZyApm4GobM3y-mDgY3mVaqpRVttOe-ZQ/edit). I'm also fine with not linking to it, now that I'm reading the relnotes end to end again.

>     * [`--incompatible_disable_late_bound_option_defaults`](https://docs.bazel.build/versions/master/skylark/backward-compatibility.html#disable-late-bound-option-defaults)

Reviewer 2: Based on the release page rendering (https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/releases/tag/0.19.0), I suggest to remove indentation before the `*`.

Author: Fixed.
